# Dissertation-Project-Code
Value Investing in Emerging Market Stocks using Artificial Neural Networks

Here I am sharing the code I used for my dissertaion project.  I have prepared this for my Data Science Masters dissertation in Birkbeck during the summer of 2021.
I am adding the abstract below, the rest of the paper is not available here.

# Abstract

Value investing is a widely used investing method which focuses on finding stocks that are available for less than their intrinsic value. This paper utilises artificial neural networks to evaluate value investment decisions in the banking sector of emerging markets. The goal is to evaluate whether certain emerging market banking stocks are under priced and therefore offer good value investment opportunities. To reach this goal an artificial neural network is trained and tested on developed market banking sector stock data publicly available from Yahoo Finance. The neural network is employed to predict on emerging market banking stocks to reveal what the values of these emerging market stocks would be if they were devoid of the risks associated with their markets. The results are tested on a rough financial model based on the existing value investing tools for comparison. The resulting comparison suggest many emerging market banking stocks are under-priced compared to their developed market counter parts with similar financial fundamentals even after accounting for their added risk. Yet, the testing performance and the prediction uncertainty of the neural network suggests much improvement is necessary to employ this method in real life investing.

# Codes

All the codes for this project were written using Python and python libraries such as Pandas, numpy, matplotlib, Tensorflow, Keras, etc.  It was prepared using jupyter notebook.  The excel sheets in the data collection folder are generated by code.
Below is the folder structure.

ann market value program
├── data collection                           # Contains all the files used for web scraping form Yahoo Finance
│    ├── yahoo_finance_asia                   # getting the stock market data for developed Asian markets
│    ├── yahoo_finance_developing             # getting the stock market data for select developing markets
│    ├── yahoo_finance_europe                 # getting the stock market data for developed European markets
│    ├── yahoo_finance_others                 # getting the stock market data for other developed markets
│    └── yahoo_finance_usa                    # getting the stock market data from the U.S.
├── 01_data_processing                        # removing outliers, handling missing values, scaling, etc.
├── 02_feature_selection                      # tesing feature selection methods
├── 03_hyperparameter_tuning_feature          # picking the best feature selection method
├── 04_hyperparameter_tuning_batch            # picking the best batch size
├── 05_hyperparameter_tuning_optimizer        # picing the best optimizer
├── 06_hyperparameter_tuning_dropout          # picking the best dropout rate
├── 07_neural_network_models                  # final ANN models
└── 08_comparison                             # comparing the results with simplified financial models

How the project functions is basically described in the below diagram.












